---
title: "Program"
weight: 3
header_menu: true
---

Invited speakers:
- Ernest Tan
{{< abstract "Chain rules and statistical estimation" >}}
I will loosely outline a general connection between entropic chain rules and statistical estimation for cryptography, and present the resulting applications. First, I discuss a technique that has been used throughout basically all works on entropy accumulation, where chain rules for various classes of quantum states are used to derive "statistical estimates" of relevant entropic quantities. This technique is closely connected to the martingale analysis used in the quantum probability estimation framework, and I highlight some major open questions of interest in extending these techniques to other important protocols. I will also discuss how this results in a family of convex optimization tasks, which have an interesting structure that could potentially benefit from better understanding their connection to Bregman proximal methods (or mirror descent). Finally, I will sketch how these methods can be extended to obtain a novel form of device certification result that overcomes some standard obstructions in this task, while still maintaining useful operational implications.
{{< /abstract >}}
- Antoine Tilloy
{{< abstract "Extracting quantum field theory dynamics from an approximate ground state" >}}
 We develop a linear-programming method to extract dynamical information from static ground-state correlators in quantum field theory. We recast the Källén-Lehmann inversion as a convex optimization problem, in a spirit similar to the recent approach of Lawrence [arXiv:2408.11766](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11766). This produces robust estimates of the smeared spectral density, the real-time propagator, and the mass gap directly from an approximate equal-time two-point function, and simultaneously yields an \emph{a posteriori} lower bound on the correlation-function error. We test the method on the 1+1-dimensional ϕ4 model, using a variational approximation to the vacuum -- relativistic continuous matrix product states -- that provides accurate correlators in the continuum and thermodynamic limits. The resulting mass gaps agree with renormalized Hamiltonian truncation and Borel-resummed perturbation theory across a wide range of couplings, demonstrating that accurate dynamical data can be recovered from a single equal-time slice.
See [arXiv:2512.19594](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.19594).
{{< /abstract >}}
- Jordi Tura
{{< abstract "TBA" >}}
TBA
{{< /abstract >}}
- Mirjam Weilenmann
{{< abstract "Timed demolition measurements" >}}
Imagine an experimental scenario where a closed quantum system, evolving through a time-independent Hamiltonian, is subject to a demolition measurement at a chosen time. The Hamiltonian, the measured observables, the initial state of the physical system and even its Hilbert space dimension are unknown; we nonetheless assume a promise or constraint on the energy distribution
of the state. What can we infer about the underlying system from measurement data collected at few different times?
We find that, for many natural energy constraints, the set of feasible time series or datasets can be characterized efficiently. Furthermore, under the assumption of a bounded energy spectrum, we prove that there exist “self-testing” datasets, whose approximate realization singles out specific Hamiltonians, states and measurement operators. Investigating to what extent the extrapolation of past measurement data is possible in this framework, we identify energy-constrained physical systems for which a non-trivial prediction at time τ requires a precision in the measurement data superexponential in τ. We also discover two extrapolation phenomena: “aha! datasets”, which drastically increase the predictability of the future statistics of an unrelated measurement; and “fog banks”: fairly simple datasets that exhibit complete unpredictability at some future time τ, but full predictability at a later time τ′> τ. Besides their relevance for quantum foundations, our results have applications in semi-device independent quantum communication, the simulation of complex quantum systems, and the design of optimal atomic clocks.
This is a joint work with Konstantinos Manos and Miguel Navascués.
{{< /abstract >}}
- Zechuan Zheng
{{< abstract "Certified algorithmes for two-point Correlators" >}}
Correlation functions encode essential information about the spectrum and dynamics of quantum systems. In this talk I describe an approach that constrains Euclidean two-point correlators using general principles such as reflection positivity, equations of motion, and thermal (KMS) conditions, leading to semidefinite programs that produce certified bounds on correlators and spectral data. I will illustrate the method with applications to matrix quantum mechanics and discuss ongoing work extending these ideas to constrain real-time correlators.
{{< /abstract >}}

Physics [colloquium](https://www.ens-lyon.fr/PHYSIQUE/seminars/colloquium/2026-03-23):
- Antonio Acín:
{{< abstract "From Bell's theorem to the device-independent quantum information scenario" >}}
Bell’s theorem proved the existence of quantum correlations with no classical analogue. After reviewing this fundamental result, we show how Bell non-local correlations are the crucial ingredient for device-independent quantum information applications. In this paradigm, devices are seen as uncharacterised quantum black boxes processing classical information and protocols are built without requiring any device modelling. This device-independent property guarantees that the protocol performance is self-certified and, in particular, provides the strongest form of quantum security. We conclude by discussing applications of the device-independent formalism in other fields, such as quantum foundations or many-body physics.
{{< /abstract >}}

Short talks:
- Miguel Frias Perez:
{{< abstract "Local Certification of Many-Body Steady States" >}}
We present a relaxation-based method to determine expectation values on the steady state of dissipative many-body quantum systems described by master equations of the Lindblad form. Instead of targeting to represent the entire state, we promote the reduced density matrices to our variables and enforce the constraints that are imposed on them by consistency with a global steady state. The resulting constraints have the form of a semidefinite program, which allows us to efficiently bound the values a given expectation value can take in the steady state. Our results show fast convergence of the bounds with the size of the reduced density matrices, giving very competitive predictions for the steady state of several one- and two-dimensional models.
See [arXiv:2602.06487](https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.06487).
{{< /abstract >}}
- Carlos de Gois:
{{< abstract "Optimal overlapping tomography of qudits and fermionic simulators" >}}
Fully characterizing large-scale quantum systems in practice requires exponentially increasing resources, but focusing on application-relevant information can often lead to significantly more efficient protocols. Overlapping tomography is such a scheme, allowing one to obtain all the information contained in specific subsystems of multiparticle quantum systems in an efficient manner. In this talk I will present protocols for overlapping tomography of qudits and of fermionic simulators that are optimal with respect to the number of measurement settings. The construction of these protocols is connected to the problems of graph clique covering and of covering arrays in combinatorics, for which solutions based on binary programming are given. The practical relevance of the protocols found by solving these programs is demonstrated by a six-photon experiment where all two-body marginals of a Dicke state are reconstructed with significantly reduced measurement time in comparison to previous approaches.
This talk is based on [arXiv:2408.05730](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.05730) and [arXiv:2512.11726](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.11726).
{{< /abstract >}}
- Arturo Konderak
{{< abstract "Self-testing from ROCN Bell inequalities" >}}
Bell inequalities provide a fundamental tool for probing nonlocal correlations, yet their quantum bound, that is, the maximal value attainable through quantum strategies, is rarely accessible analytically. In this work, we introduce a general construction of Bell inequalities for which this bound can be computed exactly. Our framework generalizes both the CHSH and Gisin's elegant inequalities, yielding Bell expressions maximally violated by any number of pairwise anticommuting Clifford observables together with the corresponding maximally entangled state. Under suitable assumptions, our inequalities also enable the device-independent certification of Majorana fermions, understood as multiqubit realizations of Clifford algebra generators. Importantly, we identify an additional equivalence that must be incorporated into the definition of self-testing beyond invariance under local isometries and transposition.
{{< /abstract >}}
- Abhishek Mishra
{{< abstract "Semi-Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution Secure under Information and Distrust Assumptions" >}}
Bridging the gap between practical implementation and rigorous security, semi-device-independent quantum key distribution (QKD) offers a compelling middle ground—requiring minimal trust assumptions while achieving key rates competitive with fully characterized protocols. We investigate two conceptually distinct constraints on the preparation device: the information constraint and restricted distrust. We identify protocols that remain secure under both assumptions and demonstrate their robustness to experimental noise. Notably, the widely used BB84 and B92 protocols fail to provide security under the information constraint. To obtain secure key rates, we showcase a numerical framework combining tracial non-commutative polynomial optimization with entropy relaxation techniques. Our approach extends naturally to broader classes of preparation constraints and QKD protocols.
{{< /abstract >}}
- Sophie Mutzel
{{< abstract "A dual perspective on spectral reconstruction from ground-state correlators" >}}
Convex optimization methods are increasingly used in quantum many-body physics to extract nonperturbative information consistent with general physical constraints such as unitarity. In relativistic quantum field theory, this implies positivity of the spectral density, which encodes the dynamics of the theory and is related to imaginary-time (static, Euclidean) correlation functions via the Källén–Lehmann representation. 
Reconstructing the spectral density from these Euclidean correlation functions is an ill-posed inverse problem, which can be formulated as a linear program under positivity constraints, as recently proposed in [arXiv:2408.11766](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11766). In its original formulation, however, the optimization variable is a continuous function, requiring discretization for numerical implementation and preventing fully rigorous results. Here we present a dual formulation of this spectral reconstruction problem. This eliminates the need for any discretization of the spectral density function and yields a rigorous framework for characterizing physically admissible spectra. The dual formulation allows for computer-assisted certification of spectral bounds and provides a principled way to assess whether given Euclidean correlators are compatible with a physical quantum field theory. As an application, we show that relativistic continuous matrix product states do not admit a local relativistic parent Hamiltonian, in the sense that no Hamiltonian consistent with relativistic spectral constraints can reproduce its correlators.
{{< /abstract >}}
- Younes Naceur
{{< abstract "Certified bounds on optimization problems in quantum theory" >}}
Semidefinite relaxations of polynomial optimization have become a central tool for addressing the non-convex optimization problems over non-commutative operators that are ubiquitous in quantum information theory and, more in general, quantum physics. Yet, as these global relaxation methods rely on floating-point methods, the bounds issued by the semidefinite solver can - and often do - exceed the global optimum, undermining their certifiability. To counter this issue, we introduce a rigorous framework for extracting exact rational bounds on non-commutative optimization problems from numerical data, and apply it to several paradigmatic problems in quantum information theory. An extension to sparsity and symmetry-adapted semidefinite relaxations is also provided and compared to the general dense scheme. Our results establish rational post-processing as a practical route to reliable certification, pushing semidefinite optimization toward a certifiable standard for quantum information science.
See [arXiv:2512.17713](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17713).
{{< /abstract >}}
- Miguel Navascues
{{< abstract "Tight and self-testing multipartite quantum Bell inequalities from the renormalization group" >}}
 In past work, the concept of connectors was introduced: directed tensors with the property that any contraction thereof defines a multipartite quantum Bell inequality, i.e., a linear restriction on measurement probabilities that holds in any multipartite quantum experiment. In this paper we propose the notion of ''tight connectors'', which, if contracted according to some simple rules, result in tight quantum Bell inequalities. By construction, the new inequalities are saturated by tensor network states, whose structure mimics the corresponding network of connectors. Some tight connectors are furthermore ''fully self-testing'', which implies that the quantum Bell inequalities they generate can only be maximized with such a tensor network state and specific measurement operators (modulo local isometries). We provide large analytic families of tight, fully self-testing connectors that generate N-partite quantum Bell inequalities of correlator form for which the ratio between the maximum quantum and classical values increases exponentially with N.
See [arXiv:2503.03878](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03878).
{{< /abstract >}}
- Stefano Pironio
{{< abstract "Nonlocality: driver for randomness?" >}}
The basic intuition underlying device-independent protocols for randomness certification is that nonlocality implies randomness. But how far does that intuition really go? Could there be Bell inequalities or maximally nonlocal that do not certify randomness? I will present results addressing these questions based on [arXiv:2408.03665](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03665) and [arXiv:2509.08623](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.08623).
{{< /abstract >}}
- Marc-Olivier Renou
{{< abstract "A new Bell theorem: Fermions outperform Quantum Information Theory at distributed computing" >}}
 Bell’s theorem rules out the possibility that only classical particles exist. It does so by proposing an experiment based on quantum particles that produces correlations unattainable within Classical Information Theory, that is, by classical particles. Remarkably, Bell's result relies solely on the minimal assumption that information is carried by finite-speed particles (requiring no stronger physical postulates), and is formulated in the standard Alice–Bob Bell scenario.
Here we rule out the possibility that only distinguishable or bosonic particles exist. In analogy with Bell’s theorem, we propose an experiment based on identical fermions that produces correlations unattainable within standard Quantum Information Theory, that is, by distinguishable particles or identical bosons. As in Bell’s theorem, our result relies solely on the minimal assumption that information is carried by finite-speed particles, but is formulated in a new scenario inspired by distributed computing.
Our work therefore establishes the existence of particles beyond distinguishable or bosonic particles in a device-independent manner. Moreover, we show that Fermionic Information Theory can outperform standard Quantum Information Theory for certain distributed tasks. As a consequence, standard quantum information textbooks focusing only on standard qubits miss fundamental possibilities for quantum distributed information processing, as the fermionic bit, or febit, can contain more information that infinitely many qubits and outperform them for information processing.
{{< /abstract >}}
- Mostafa Taheri
{{< abstract "Efficient Sum-of-Squares Proofs using Machine Learning" >}}
Certifying the non-negativity of polynomials is a fundamental problem and many questions in quantum information can be expressed in this language. The standard approach involves finding a Sum-of-Squares (SOS) certificate, which can be formulated as a Semidefinite Program (SDP). However, the size of the resulting SDP grows rapidly with the number of variables and degree, often becoming computationally intractable. 
A technique to reduce this complexity is to guess a concise "ansatz" for the SOS and restrict the search to certificates of this form.
In this work, we investigate automated methods for generating efficient ansatzes that significantly reduce SDP costs while maintaining the ability to find valid SOS certificates. We propose two complementary approaches: a graph-theoretic method utilizing clique decomposition and graph completion autoencoders to identify hidden structures, and an evolutionary search method (FunSearch) leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to discover novel ansatz generation heuristics. We demonstrate the efficacy of our methods on both randomly generated polynomials with injected cancellations and highly structured polynomials from quantum separability problems, achieving up to 1000x speedups in certification tasks.
{{< /abstract >}}
<!-- - Lewis Wooltorton -->
<!-- {{< abstract "Genuine Multipartite Entanglement is Not Necessary for Standard Device-Independent Conference Key Agreement" >}} -->
<!-- Conference key agreement aims to establish shared, private randomness among many separated parties in a network. Device-independent conference key agreement (DICKA) is a variant in which the source and the measurement devices used by each party need not be trusted. So far, DICKA protocols largely fall into two categories: those that rely on violating a joint Bell inequality using genuinely multipartite entangled states and those that concatenate many bipartite protocols. The question of whether a hybrid protocol exists, where a multipartite Bell inequality can be violated using only bipartite entanglement, was asked by Grasselli et al. [Quantum 7, 980 (2023)]. We answer this question affirmatively, by constructing an asymptotically secure DICKA protocol achieving the same rate as the concatenation of bipartite device-independent quantum key distribution, yet relying on a single joint Bell violation. Our results prompt further discussion on the benefits of multipartite entanglement for DICKA over its bipartite alternative, and we give an overview of different arguments for near-term devices. -->
<!-- This is a joint work with Peter Brown and Roger Colbeck; see [arXiv:2503.21290](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.21290). -->
<!-- {{< /abstract >}} -->
- Yuming Zhao
{{< abstract "An operator-algebraic formulation of robust self-testing" >}}
In this talk, I will introduce an operator-algebraic formulation of robust self-testing in terms of states on C\*-algebras. For synchronous games and similar nonlocal games, self-testing can be studied through tracial states on the associated game algebras. For these nonlocal games, I will show how the stability of the tracial states determines the robustness of a self-test. I will also discuss self-testing in parallel.
Based on [arXiv:2301.11291](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.11291) (with Connor Paddock, William Slofstra, and Yangchen Zhou), [arXiv:2411.03259](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03259), and [arXiv:2505.05994](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05994) (with Matthijs Vernooij).
{{< /abstract >}}
